pages/assessment/formative-strategies.mdx, before:

# Formative Assessment Strategies

Formative assessment happens continuously throughout instruction — not just at the end of a unit. It provides real-time data that teachers use to adjust instruction and students use to monitor their own learning.

## Daily Strategies

- **Exit tickets** — 2-3 questions targeting the day's learning goal
- **Process journals** — Students document decisions, struggles, and next steps
- **Stand-up meetings** — 5-minute team check-ins on progress and blockers
- **Skill checks** — Quick demonstrations of specific skills being developed

## Assessing Collaboration

Collaboration is a cross-cutting skill that requires its own assessment approach:

| What to Observe | Evidence |
|----------------|----------|
| Role fulfillment | Team logs showing task completion |
| Communication | Meeting notes, message threads |
| Conflict resolution | Documented disagreements and resolutions |
| Shared workload | Individual contribution tracking |

## Self and Peer Assessment

Students assess their own and their teammates' contributions using structured protocols:

1. **Individual reflection** — What did I contribute? What would I do differently?
2. **Peer feedback** — Specific observations about teammates' contributions
3. **Team assessment** — How well did the team function as a unit?

Use consistent criteria so students know what's expected from the start.

Commit message:

Add FormativePromptGenerator interactive component to formative strategies page
Adds an interactive prompt generator that lets teachers select a curriculum
standard, assessment strategy (exit ticket, process journal, skill check,
peer feedback, self-reflection, collaboration assessment), and grade level
to generate a ready-to-use AI prompt they can copy into ChatGPT/Claude.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01S7GGwBWNjChfV41nWvoMkW

pages/assessment/formative-strategies.mdx, after:

import { FormativePromptGenerator } from '../../components/FormativePromptGenerator'

# Formative Assessment Strategies

Formative assessment happens continuously throughout instruction — not just at the end of a unit. It provides real-time data that teachers use to adjust instruction and students use to monitor their own learning.

## Generate a Formative Assessment Prompt

Use this tool to generate a ready-to-use AI prompt based on your curriculum standard or learning goal. Select an assessment strategy and grade level, then copy the generated prompt into ChatGPT, Claude, or any AI tool.

<FormativePromptGenerator />

## Daily Strategies

- **Exit tickets** — 2-3 questions targeting the day's learning goal
- **Process journals** — Students document decisions, struggles, and next steps
- **Stand-up meetings** — 5-minute team check-ins on progress and blockers
- **Skill checks** — Quick demonstrations of specific skills being developed

## Assessing Collaboration

Collaboration is a cross-cutting skill that requires its own assessment approach:

| What to Observe | Evidence |
|----------------|----------|
| Role fulfillment | Team logs showing task completion |
| Communication | Meeting notes, message threads |
| Conflict resolution | Documented disagreements and resolutions |
| Shared workload | Individual contribution tracking |

## Self and Peer Assessment

Students assess their own and their teammates' contributions using structured protocols:

1. **Individual reflection** — What did I contribute? What would I do differently?
2. **Peer feedback** — Specific observations about teammates' contributions
3. **Team assessment** — How well did the team function as a unit?

Use consistent criteria so students know what's expected from the start.
